Yo, welcome back to another episode of
the Jack Malers Show. I am your host,
Jack, and you're listening to yet
another edition of Mail Bag Monday, 6:00
p.m. Eastern, 5:00 p.m. Central, 3:00
p.m. Pacific time. All signal, no noise,
and no ads. Without further ado, ladies
and gentlemen, let's get this show on
the road. I'm talking to you all at a
Bitcoin price I [laughter] can't even
I'm talking to you at a Bitcoin price of
68,530
US. That puts Bitcoin's market cap at a
$1.37
trillion
in size. We are still hanging down
towards the recent lows. Bitcoin's
all-time high price remains at $126,160.
We are over 45%
off that all-time high that was made on
October 6, 2025. It has now been 133
days since we made an all-time high for
those keeping score at home. What about
the Bitcoin block height?
What was the last Bitcoin block mined
since I hit stream? It was Bitcoin block
936,984.
That is how we time stamp these shows
here on the Jack Mer Show.
Okay, ladies and gentlemen, here's the
deal. It's a holiday in the United
States, so I got no Dylan, so I don't
know how I'm going to do Q&A. Um, you
guys are probably asking questions in
the chat, but I got to do the show. I
can't really see the chat, so I'm going
to try and do my best. Um, I'm also a
little bit under the weather. Nothing
major, though. You know, I'm a champion.
You know, I'm a man of the people.
Nothing's going to stop me from fighting
for the man. For the common man. Geez,
excuse me. Slipped typo there. Little
mouse slip. fighting for the common man.
Um, but a little bit of a cold
nonetheless. So, my plan going into it
was to keep the episode a little short.
Not in a bad way, but some of the
feedback you guys give me is the show is
super repetitive. I don't know what to
do about that. I mean, you know, the
same story lines are dominating our
everyday lives here. Um, so I've
tightened it up a little bit. I have a
new section of the show that I think is
hilarious. Ultimately, you guys will be
the judge of that and then we'll do Q&A
a little bit live. Okay? So, I'll just
open up the chat. You guys will ask me
what you want. Um, that'll be
interesting. Um, we'll see how well I
interact with the chat. Sometimes the
chat, um, throws punches at me and I
throw punches back. So, that'll be fun.
Uh, and then we'll call it a day. Fair
game, little special edition, holiday
edition of the Jack Mer Show. So,
without further ado, let's go. Today's
episode is titled Japan AI and the next
liquidity shock and why Bitcoin's
weakness is an early warning. And so I
want to
pulling up the chat and uh I just played
my own voice. That's always that's
always tough. It's always a tough scene
hearing your own voice.
Um anyway, all right. Here we go. Uh
Japan AI in the next liquidity shock.
Why Bitcoin's weakness is an early
warning. And the reason that this is uh
a little bit repetitive is because I'm
going to be talking about a very similar
message to what I've been saying over
the last six months maybe. It depends on
when you start counting. Um but guys, I
mean the story is the story. Uh above
all else, above entertainment value,
above having fun, um I do this to spit
facts, tell the truth, um try and be
part of the public conversation in a
really unique way. Um, no political
bias, no corporate bias, no ads, just
truth. And the story remains the same.
Bitcoin's weakness is telling us
something. Okay? Uh, it's telling us
when liquidity is weak and when
liquidity is abundant. When liquidity is
abundant, Bitcoin is shrieking high in
price discovery and making new highs.
And when liquidity is weak, Bitcoin's
the first to move. We've talked often on
the show, Bitcoin's a truth machine.
It's the only truly free market we have
left. It's like a liquidity smoke alarm.
Okay. And in my opinion,
liquidity is starting to get really
scarce for two main reasons and we talk
about it frequently on the show. One is
Japan and what's happening in Japan.
We've talked about how that's the
biggest macro story in the world right
now and increasingly so. And the other
is AI.
um the rate at which AI so as you guys
know if you look closely if you're
watching the visuals here if you look
closely um I'm running this slideshow on
localhost 8000 I use AI to make this
show AI has improved my life so much and
it is true it's been in the last 3 to
six months in particular changed how we
do everything at strike ch it's it's
really picking up and uh there are pros
to that like it's enhanced my
productivity and my life tremendously
But there are cons and we've talked
about how it really disintermediates the
white collar worker and the United
States is full of white collar workers.
We talk about how the blueco collar jobs
are in China. And so the rise of AI is
the death of jobs in America and the
combination of those two seemingly are
causing really serious issues and those
issues are starting to take hold and
Bitcoin's giving us a clue as to what's
to come. So the thesis of the episode is
really this um ven diagram chart that I
made here. So for those listening, I've
got one circle which is sovereign debt,
which is just governments being so
indebted. You know, you got debt to GDP
of the United States at around 130%.
You've got debt to GDP in Japan at over
200%.
Then you've got this other circle of AI
deflation. Okay? And that is the better
AI gets at making us more efficient, um
the more jobs we're going to lose. the
more jobs we're going to lose, the less
taxes the United States collects, the
less taxes the United States collects,
uh the higher Treasury yields go, the
higher it it starts a death spiral. And
so AI deflation, we we know well and
good that an inflationary monetary
regime does not like a deflationary
technology. And then the third circle I
have is just tightness of liquidity. Um
we know that Jerome Powell has not cut
rates like Trump. Trump wants to run it
hot. Trump wants growth, 20% plus growth
and liquidity has remained tight. Now
the Fed is back raising uh their balance
sheet. Um quantitative tightening is
over. But it's not monetary policy is
not as easy as the administration has
wanted. And so you've got this
combination of these three circles,
sovereign debt, AI deflation, and tight
liquidity, which to me is starting to
result in a liquidity shock. I think
we're going to get some form of a crisis
soon and Bitcoin is really telling us
that. So, the first chapter is Hello
Darkness, my old friend. Under the
surface, things are looking bleak. So,
um, a few things like really caught my
eye over the last week. It's starting to
look really, really bad out there. Uh,
for starters, the world uncertainty
index has never been higher and like way
higher. um it is almost double what the
world uncertainty index was in COVID and
mind you it's titled here so for those
listening on the far left you've got 911
slightly above 911 was the Iraq war
slightly above the Iraq war was COVID
and now you have what's happening in
2025 the visual has it titled as the
trade war but I disagree with that yes
we're in a trade war with China but I
would say sovereign debt crisis slash AI
is probably more accurately what is
driving this level of certainty slash
new world order
like slash we took over Venezuela slash
we want Greenland slash at the world
economic forum everyone mutually agreed
that the post 1945 postWorld War II
economic order is dead slashglobalism is
ending. So, it's definitely not just the
trade war, but I think everyone would
agree that the level of uncertainty
is at an all-time high. And it's
interesting, and I'll get into this
later, but there's an AI CEO that wrote
a very long letter about how this to him
feels like the few months prior to COVID
really becoming a mainstream crisis.
I remember those days vividly where I
was on Twitter and people that I really
respect and I think are brilliant were
like, "There is a crisis around the
corner. Something bad is about to
happen." And at the time, if you were
like stacking toilet paper in February
of 2020, you were a nutcase. You're
like, "What the [__] is wrong with this
guy? I could go outside. I could go to
the grocery store. I'm going to my job.
Why are you stockpiling toilet paper?"
But then come March in April 2020, you
are a genius.
And so it's interesting. Okay, let's
move on. Downwards revision incoming. So
Anna Wong, lead economist at Bloomberg,
she tweeted this last week, which ca to
me kind of came out of nowhere. At this
point, I have to start expecting it was
on jobs, we are expecting about 666,000
downward revisions to March 2025
payrolls. And then she says after
including birth and death model updates,
the total downwards revision should be a
million. I'm like what? First of all,
what what's the point of using this data
if all we do is later revise it down a
million? Like what what's the point of
publishing the data in the first place?
[snorts] So anyways,
as of yesterday it she was right.
Breaking US job numbers were revised
down 1,29,000
jobs,
the largest annual revision in the last
20 years. This follows downward
revisions of 818,000 in 2024, 306,000 in
2023. So in total, over 2.1 million jobs
have been revised out of the initially
reported data over the last three years.
Okay. Like, are rate cuts back on now
that we know that all the job data that
said the economy was doing fine and
everyone was employed isn't true?
And here's the other thing. If things
were bad, let's say liquidity is getting
tight. Let's say sovereign debt is
really reaching crisis levels as we're
seeing in Japan. And let's say AI is
really starting to take everyone's jobs
and we're reaching that level of an
inflection point. Well, one of the
things that we would see are
delinquencies.
delinquencies would start to trend up.
And oh boy, are they trending up.
[laughter]
That's kind of why I I listen, I don't
want to repeat topics too much. I want
the show to be interesting. I know I it
gets repetitive, but guys, I can't help
it. I mean, this from Bloomberg, US
consumer delinquencies jumped to highest
in almost a decade.
If this if these aren't warning signs,
then I don't know what is. You pair this
with the recent Bitcoin price action
with the revision of jobs
with what's happening in Japan.
It's starting to look really dicey. So,
deflationary force meets a debt system.
Deflation doesn't like inflation. So,
this is an image from that Bloomberg
article, debt and default. The share of
US loans in delinquency is at its
highest since 2017 and it's 2026. So
that's almost a decade and you can see
that delinquencies are rising. And then
it, you know, in the article, you guys
should read it. It talks about how
housing is the main driver. And housing
is really the main driver in all
consumer affordability crisis issues,
right? It's the thing that's people need
the most, which is a roof over their
head. It drives the affordability crisis
the most. and they claim that mortgages
and defaulting on your mortgage is the
driver to delinquencies. However, if you
pull on the thread a little bit, you're
like, "Well, hold on a second. If we fix
the mortgage crisis, which by the way,
there is no fixing that. It's just
printing money." But allow me to talk
like a Keynesian for a second. If we fix
the mortgage crisis, well, would
delinquencies resolve of themselves? And
the answer is absolutely not. There's I
mean, I could have made this a million
slides long. Their delinquency crisis in
student debt. this tweet here, share of
credit card loans in serious delinquency
rose to 12.7% in the fourth quarter of
2025. The only other times the share has
been higher is 2010 and the beginning of
2011, which obviously um mind you was
right after the global financial crisis.
And so there are delinquencies in
consumer credit across the board. Across
the board, it is not good. And these are
the type of signals that you'd see.
Listen, if the Bitcoin price is
dislocated, but it's because Binance
blew up when one was insolvent or for,
you know, for some obvious reason, then
you buy the dip. And we've all seen a
Bitcoin chart like that. V-shaped
recovery. If Bitcoin looks weak, again,
guys, never fade the truth. Never fade
open source software. Never fade a truly
distributed network. Bitcoin is honest.
Don't fight it. Just listen to it.
That's part of the, you know, kill your
ego, stay humble aspect of Bitcoin. It's
trying to tell you something. When I
look at delinquencies on the rise and I
look at a dislocated Bitcoin price and I
look at the Japanese markets, I think a
crisis is brewing,
which again, policy makers will never
print the money without a crisis. It is
politically not okay to ignite inflation
wartime spending
without an excuse.
But I don't know. I mean, like to me,
it's time to turn on your DCAs and start
to average into this dip
because Bitcoin to me looks like it's
telling us that um there's bad news
around the corner. Um, so now that we
know delinquencies are on the rise,
every single index you could care about,
consumer confidence index, everything
bad, really bad. Let's take a look at
Japan. So the title of this chapter,
Japan is flashing red, the largest story
in macroeconomics. Okay, this chart,
shoot, let me see if I can blow it up a
little bit. Here we go. So this is from
the Financial Times. The title of this
visual is if forward markets are a guide
to the future, debt service is set to
explode. Now,
by looking at the metrics of the show, a
very healthy chunk of you guys listen to
this as a podcast. So, I'm going to do
my best. This is easily the most
important graphic of the whole
presentation by far. So,
here's what this thing is attempting to
show. So in the subtitle it says light
bubbles show a 2036 projection. So 2036
the year is 2026 right now. So that's 10
years forward. And what it's using is
it's using bond markets to forward
project
expected rates. Okay. And so what it has
is on the x-axis let me scroll down a
little bit. It has debt to GDP. So you
can see Germany's debt to GDP is a
little over 60%. The US is living in
this 120% 130% range. You see Japan all
the way at the right over there at 200
almost 240%.
Okay, so that's debt to GDP. And mind
you guys, why is this important? Debt to
GDP is how much debt, how much of their
populous future has a sovereign, has a
country borrowed versus how much growth
are they producing to pay it back. Why
is that relevant? Why does that matter
so much? Well, think about it.
When you borrow money, what matters is
growth that you're producing to pay it
back. You only borrow from your future
if you theoretically could spend that
capital today and arrive in the future
with more resources than if you didn't.
Let me give you a super layman's
example. A 5-year-old borrows $100 for a
lemonade stand. And the expectation is
they'll produce enough growth selling
lemonade that they'll be able to pay
back the $100 plus proceeds for
themselves, right? And so what you would
want to know is debt to GDP for the
5-year-old's lemonade stand is how much
debt did they take $100 versus how much
growth are they producing to pay that
back. Now you take that to the United
States or to Japan or to Germany. How
much debt verse the GDP? What's that
ratio? And when you get to over 100%, if
you get to 120%, Japan's well over 200%.
Um, that's interesting. Now, the yaxis
is debt services as a pret percentage of
GDP. So, how much does it cost to
service the debt as a percentage of your
growth? Okay. Now, when you use the bond
market, you can actually get a sense of
how markets are judging this. And so
when you look at the light bubbles that
shows a projection 10 years out using
the 10-year 10-year market, it shows
that Japan
is pricing 11% debt service as a percent
of GDP. That's insane.
That means well over 10%
debt service as a percent of their GDP.
That's unbelievable. It shows the United
States as over 6% at 7%.
And what this image shows is the if if
you look at the diagonal lines, the
higher the rates go, the faster your
growth.
You see?
So this image, you screenshot this and
you should read the Financial Times
article. This goes to show and and read
the title of this. If forward markets
are a guide to the future, debt service
is set to explode. It's not making a
speculative prediction. It's taking
forward markets. So the 10-year tenure
forward projecting to 1030 or to 2036
using that and saying as a percent of
GDP, none of this is sustainable. And
this is a very like in my opinion
interesting way because usually you
don't have debts GDP rates and debt
service percentage GDP in one chart. So
it was able to create a visual all out
of all of those and basically show us
that we are reaching sovereign crisis
levels of debt like Japan and and if you
look at Japan all the way on the right
and the forward projection of 11% I mean
that's outrageous. That's outrageous.
Uh, let me zoom this back out. And so
here I go showing the same asset
probably for the third week in a row,
which is the US 10-year over the
Japanese 10-year and the US dollar over
the Japanese yen. And the title of my
slide, EM style stress signal, JGB
yields are up and the yen is down. That
is emergent market behavior. This is not
good. This is really, really bad. The
gap between that red line and that blue
line is the biggest story in
macroeconomics right now. The biggest
story by far.
By far.
So interesting. Um this I got this from
Luke Roman. Shout out Luke. Just the
best in the game, honestly. Um this
title, Japan was the only exception. So
mind you, this from Hirshman Capital.
Okay, I'm going to I'm going to read uh
the graphic here. Government default
seems unavoidable.
It reads, "Since 1800, 51 out of 52
countries with gross government debt
greater than 130% have defaulted either
through restructuring, devaluation, high
inflation, or an outright default.
Examples are shown in the endote. The
IMF expects the US government debt to
GDP to be a record 141% by year end
2020. There is little reason the US
government should not also default.
Okay. In the endotes, it has this visual
which I've shown on the right here and
it has a footnote that says, "Present
day Japan is the only example of a
country avoiding default despite having
government debt greater than 130% of
GDP."
However, as discussed in our year-end
2016 letter, a Japanese default seems
inevitable. And Japan was always used
from Keynesian economics or modern day e
economists like all these fiat maxis. It
was always used as an excuse. Well, look
at Japan. Japan's debt to GDP is over
200%. It hasn't defaulted. And it was
always such a load of [__] Obviously,
anyone with a brain and that can think
logically with first principles knows
that you cannot just borrow from your
future forever, especially without
producing the growth to pay it back.
That's a perpetual motion machine.
That's a Ponzi scheme. All of us
logically are aware of that. It takes I
don't know a teenager's developed brain
to understand that. Um how we have
economists teaching at universities the
opposite of that. It's always
mindboggling to me. Um but the point of
this is now Japan's no longer an
exception. It's no longer an excuse. And
every single country that's debt's GDP
gets out of control, they default. The
United States is at these levels. Japan
is long over those levels. So again, why
what's the context, guys? We are living
through a sovereign debt crisis. Like
we're in the middle of it.
So Japan can protect itself by selling
the United States. And this is another
topic. Again, I could have made this
episode three hours long, but these are
topics I've gone over in recent
episodes, so trying to keep this one
tight, but Joseph Wang writes, "Japan
looks to be in a crackup boom. A fiat
regime has no risk of a bond crisis, and
rising JGB yields simply reflect rising
policy expectations. An FX crisis is
possible, but Japan can manage that with
its large foreign asset holdings." I
want to break this down and say it in
Jack language. So, a fiat regime has no
risk of a bond crisis. Why is he saying
that? Well, a bond crisis is a crisis of
lending to the government, right? As
we've talked about in previous episodes
recently, a bond is just a way to lend
to the sovereign, lend to the
government, to the Japanese government,
to the US government. So, when he says a
fiat regime has no risk of a bond
crisis, he's saying a fiat regime can
just print money. So if no one will lend
to the government, the central bank can
always just print the money out of thin
air and lend it to the government. Now
you're solving a problem while creating
another one, the other one you're
creating is that's highly inflationary.
Obviously, it severely debases the
currency just by creating money out of
thin air. But his point is there is no
bond crisis for these sovereigns. At the
end of the day, they're a fiat regime.
So they can just print what they want.
And so he says a fiat regime has no risk
of a bond crisis. Okay, we understand
that. and rising JGB yields simply
reflect reflect rising policy
expectations an FX crisis is possible.
So, as we've been talking about, yields
have gone up, but the currency has gone
down. That's an emerging market crisis.
Now, that is an issue. And what he's
saying is a bond crisis is can be solved
by printing money out of thin air. What
printing money out of thin air does not
solve is a currency crisis, an FX
crisis. Printing more yen only weakens
the yen. And he says, "But Japan can
manage that by selling its large foreign
holdings." And this is what we've been
talking about over and over and over and
over is Japan is one of the largest
asset holders in the world. They own a
tremendous amount of the United States
of America. And so the reason that the
United States has wanted to step in,
provide them a dollar swap line, bail
out Japan, be involved in their markets.
So I've talked about before, we're
America. Why the hell do we care about
Japan that much? If they have issues,
they have issues. It's not like we wish
them to have issues, but if they have
issues, like why does it matter? I live
in Chicago. Well, the reason is because
if Japan wanted to protect its currency,
so let's say this. Japan bonds get out
of control and the Japanese central bank
needs to print money out of thin air to
lend it to the government to protect the
bond market. Okay, fine. Now, the
currency that's already getting hammered
is going to get hammered more. Okay, how
do they protect the currency? Well, all
the assets that they have, they can sell
them to bid up their own currency.
Basically, deplete their reserves. Think
of this as a giant like they have all
these reserves backing this Ponzi
scheme. And now the Ponzi scheme is
getting margin called. So, they're going
to deplete their reserves. It's like the
Luna Luna Ponzi scheme of 2022. So,
they're going to deplete their reserves
to try and protect it. Well, what are
their reserves? Their reserves are MAG
7. Their reserves are US treasuries.
their reserves are US assets, right? And
so this is the Japan sneezes and the US
Treasury market gets the flu. Why this
this is why the United States cares this
is why this is such a global issue and
not just an issue for Japan is because
if Japan is under stress then the US
Treasury market will start to
dysfunction or and slash or the US stock
market will start to dysfunction and it
doesn't matter if the US Treasury market
initially is is okay as soon as the US
stock market starts to sell off again
the US needs their tax receipts they
need assets to deliver capital gains
they need employment to remain healthy
or else they cannot cannot afford their
own debt servicing. So, Japan gets
stressed, US Treasury starts to
dysfunction, yields go up, risk comes
off, Bitcoin comes down, and that's this
array. This this is the domino of
events. And like we've talked about
before in the last episode in
particular, unfortunately, Bitcoin is
bucketed in this risk on. It's bucketed
like it's a technology software stock.
And you know, I would assume everyone
listening to the show thinks of it like
hard money, has monetized it like hard
money, treats it as a savings account.
And eventually as Bitcoin, the the
people holding it for what I think are
the wrong reasons that because they
think it's like owning Mag 7, like a
tech stock, they're getting washed out.
And over time, Bitcoin continues to be
capitalized and held by what are called
hodlers of last resort, right? Those
that monetize it, those that save in it.
And so slowly but surely, my expectation
is Bitcoin decouples itself from trading
like a tech stock and starts to behave
and act more like gold. But it's going
to have to mature for that. It's going
to need a larger market cap. It's still
not big enough for sovereigns, for
central banks, for um you know,
endowments even to allocate in in large
size. A $1.3 trillion asset is just not
big enough. It's like the size of Tesla.
Okay. Um and the people a large portion
of people that do hold it are
unfortunately you know they are getting
crushed right now because software is
getting crushed because Mag 7 is getting
crushed because there's a capital
rotation into gold and part of them
getting crushed is Bitcoin's getting
crushed because they've been holders of
Bitcoin. So that's why Japan matters you
know for the novice and I don't blame
them. They're like okay cool like
Tokyo's [__] why do I care? Well,
this whole fiat thing is one giant chain
of Ponzi scheme.
That's that's why you care. So,
what's my evidence here? Look at the Mag
7. Um, this tweet from Charlie. All
seven members of the Magnificent 7 are
now down on the year and underperforming
the S&P 500.
So, I've talked about I think
something's brewing.
Job revisions look really bad. Consumer
confidence looks really bad. Consumer
sentiment looks really bad. Mag 7 looks
really bad. Bitcoin looks really bad.
It's a matter of time before the NASDAQ
and the S&P 500 take a tumble. I think
that I think something like Liberation
Day or worse is coming. I do. And I
think Bitcoin is going to bleed until
they print the money. Now, the way this
ends is they're going to print the
money, right? I mean, we've talked about
this. It's either going to be a hard
default or a soft default. A hard
default is they that the United States
just comes out and says, "We give up.
Everything's over. Um, we're defaulting.
The world's going to fall apart." Um,
they could have done that over the last
decades. They haven't. Instead, they've
printed the money, which is a soft
default. A soft default is defaulting
via inflation. If you print enough
money, paying back $40 trillion is not
that hard because a dollar is worthless.
You know, we could afford paying back 40
trillion Venezuelan boulevards because a
Venezuelan boulevard is like literally
worth less than the toilet paper that
wipes my ass. So, if you keep printing
the dollar, then you're effectively
defaulting
via inflation in the basement of the
currency. And so, what's my evidence
that this is playing out is MAG7's
getting absolutely hammered. Microsoft
down 17%, Amazon down 14%, Tesla down,
Apple down, Meta, Google, Nvidia,
I mean, it's bad. It's bad. Um, and then
if you look at the MAG 7 over gold, I
mean, it looks really bad. It's about to
make new lows and uh it's clear that
capital is rotating into gold. And what
does that mean, guys? Capital rotating
from where? Into gold? From sovereign
paper. from sovereign debt. So the era
of saving in sovereign debt is dead. We
are entering a sovereign debt crisis.
Sovereign debt capital, these these
treasuries, these paper notes from
governments are rotating into gold. Why
not Bitcoin? I've said Bitcoin's just
not big enough. It's just not not mature
enough yet. And that's fine. Like it's
all about your time preference and it's
all about why you're here. I'm 31 years
old. I firmly believe gold has already
failed us. It's going to fail us again
if we let it. We've engineered a better
solution, but it's going to take a lot
of man-hour and a lot of conviction and
a lot of leadership to lead us to the
glory days of Bitcoin. We got to put our
head down and get to work. And I'm young
enough where I hope, God willing, knock
on wood, that I can be alive for the
coming decades to see that through for
future generations, for my kids. So, I'm
not wor I got nothing but time. As long
as I eat my ribe eyes, get some sun,
exercise, take care of my body, I got
nothing but time. But the reality is
Bitcoin is just not big enough. A
trillion dollar asset can't absorb
central bank buying. It can't. China ran
a trillion plus dollar trade surplus
last year. They can't pour their trade
surplus into Bitcoin. Their trade
surplus this year might be bigger than
Bitcoin's entire market cap.
So when you look at Bitcoin versus gold,
it looks like Mac 7 versus gold. It
looks like tech versus gold. Gold is
absorbing the largest market in the
world, which is B, the bond market, the
treasury market, and Bitcoin is behaving
like a tech stock, which by the way, I
don't want to be too negative. It's
Bitcoin's going to outperform once they
print the money. Just to be clear, my
like one-s sentence prediction, the next
one to two quarters are probably going
to be really volatile and potentially a
crisis. And then they print the money
and then we're off to the races. Bitcoin
is the best performing thing. And so to
me, it's time to turn on your DCAs. It's
time to buy the [__] dip. Buy the
tech guys dips. These tech hedge fund
guys are getting margin called. Tech is
getting murdered.
And buy their dip. Hodler's a last
resort. The sovereign individuals buy
their dip. But that's I mean what's
happening in Japan is the largest story
in macroeconomics bar none. It's not
close.
It is a debt crisis playing out in real
time. And if the Japanese currency needs
help, they're going to have to sell all
their US assets. If they sell all their
US assets, they're going to cause a
crisis. And so the question is not if
there will be a crisis. It's when there
will be a crisis and when authorities
will step in. That's the question.
Are they going to step in before the
crisis? They usually don't. They usually
let there be pain so that they have
political cover.
If think about it, if Janet Yellen
printed all that money before Silicon
Valley Bank fell apart, they'd have been
like, "What the hell? We were on the
back half of all this inflation. [__]
you, Janet Yellen." But because banks
are falling apart and people were
literally going to the bank and saying,
"I want my money." And they're saying,
"Your money's not here."
Then she has the political cover to
print the money and be a hero. So, I
expect I I expect things to get dicey. I
really do. And on top of that, let's get
into AI and how it's accelerating
because it's one thing to have a
sovereign debt crisis in Japan
effectively foreshadowing what's going
to happen to the United States and for
central banks and sovereigns to be
rotating out of government paper and
into gold. It's an entirely other thing
for this AI thing which is one of the
most deflationary inventions of our
lifetime to be accelerating at the pace
that it is. So, chapter 2, AI is
accelerating in debt systems hate
deflation. Okay, this guy Matt Schumer,
he wrote this piece. I mean, look at
this screenshot. As of today, it had 83
million views on Twitter. It's titled
Something Big Is Happening. Um, I'm
gonna get close to my screen here and
just read it. A little story time for
the kids at home. Um, trust me, it'll be
worth it. So, he writes, "Think back to
February 2020. If you were paying close
attention, you might have noticed a few
people talking about a virus spreading
overseas, but most of us weren't paying
close attention. The stock market was
doing great. Your kids were in school.
You were going to restaurants and
shaking hands and planning trips. If
someone told you they were stockpiling
toilet paper, you would have thought
they'd be spending too much time in the
weird corner of the internet. Then over
the course of about 3 weeks, the entire
world changed. Your office clothes, your
kids came home, and life rearranged
itself into something you wouldn't have
believed if you'd described it to
yourself a month earlier. I think we're
in the this seems overblown phase of
something much, much bigger than COVID.
I've spent six years building an AI
startup and investing in this space. I
live in this world and I'm writing this
for the people in my life who don't. My
family, my friends, and the people I
care about who keep asking me, "So,
what's the deal with AI?" and getting an
answer that doesn't do justice what's
actually happening. I keep giving them
the polite version, the cocktail party
version, because the honest version
sounds like I've lost my mind. And for a
while, I told myself that was a good
enough reason to keep what's truly
happening to myself. But the gap between
what I've been saying and what is
actually happening has gotten far too
big. The people I care about deserve to
hear what is coming, even if it sounds
crazy.
I should be clear about something
upfront. Even though I work in AI, I
have almost no influence over what's
about to happen. And neither does the
vast majority of our industry. The
future is being shaped by a remarkably
small number of people, a few hundred
researchers at a handful of companies.
Open AAI, Anthropic, Google DeepMind,
and a few others. A single training run
managed by a small team of over over a
few months can produce an AI system that
shifts the entire trajectory of
technology. Most of us who work in AI
are building on top of foundations that
we did not lay. We're watching this
unfold the same as you. We just happen
to be close enough to feel the ground
shake first. But it's time now, not in
an eventually we should talk way, in a
this is happening right now and I need
you to understand it way. Then the next
page, and this is the last page I'll
read. I know this is real because it
happened to me first. Here's the thing
nobody outside of tech quite understands
yet. The reason so many people in the
industry are sounding the alarm right
now is because this already happened to
us. We're not making predictions. We're
telling you what already occurred in our
own jobs and warning you that you're
next. For years, AI had been improving
steadily. Big jumps here and there, but
each jump was spaced out enough so that
you could absorb them as they came. Then
in 2025, new techniques for building
these models unlocked a much faster pace
of progress. And then it got even faster
and then faster again. Each new model
wasn't just better than the last. It was
better by a wide margin. And the time
between new model releases was shorter.
I was using AI more and more and more,
going back and forth with it less and
less and less, watching it handle things
I used to think required my expertise.
Then on February 5th, two major AI labs
released new models. On the same day,
GPT 5.3 codecs from OpenAI and Opus 4.8
from Anthropic, the makers of Claude,
one of the main competitors to chat GBT.
And something clicked, not like a light
switch, more like the moment you realize
the water has been rising around you and
now is at your chest. I am no longer
needed for the actual technical work of
my job. I describe what I want built in
plain English and it just appears.
Not a rough draft of my computer for
hours and I come or excuse me, not a
rough draft. I need to fix the finished
thing. I tell the AI what I want. I walk
away from my computer for four hours and
I come back to find the work done and
it's done well. Done better than I would
have done it myself with no corrections
needed. A couple of months ago, I was
going back and forth with the AI,
guiding the AI, making edits to the AI.
Now, I just describe the outcome, and I
leave. Let me give you an example so you
can understand what this actually looks
like in practice. I'll tell the AI, I
want this app built. Here's what it
should do. Here's roughly what it should
look like. Figure out the user flow, the
design, all of it. And it does it. It
writes tens of thousands of lines of
code. Then, and this is the part that
would have been unthinkable years ago,
it opens the app itself. It clicks
through the app with buttons. It tests
the features. It uses the app the same
way a person would use the app. If it
doesn't like how it does something or
how it feels, it goes back and then
changes it by itself. It iterates like a
developer would, fixing and refining
until it's satisfied. Only once it has
decided that the app meets its own
standards does it come back to me and
say, "It's ready for you to test." And
when I test it, it's usually perfect.
I'm not exaggerating. This is what my
Monday looked like this week. Okay,
guys, I'm going to give you a live
example because this is exactly how I
use AI and in fact how I built this.
This guy is telling the truth. The CTO
of Strike hasn't written a line of code
in forever.
Our CTO Tom has not written code in a
really long time now. We're still like
AI is rapidly changing our company and
we already are one of the highest
velocity Bitcoin companies in the world
and we're only going to get more
efficient. It's actually insane. Now, I
will just make an example. So the way I
have AI set up,
I have a developer environment that
builds all my slide decks, my board
decks, my Jack Maller show decks, my
presentations for conferences, internal
ideas I have. So here I will say
create a new title slide after slide 22
and let's make the title live example of
AI and the subtitle should be this is
mindblowing
deflation meets inflation.
So I just talked to my computer. Okay.
Um, and it's off working.
And what I've increasingly done is I I'm
allowed to read a lot more research. I
do spend a decent amount. I spend about
a thousand bucks on my personal AI
setup. I use Claude for engineering. I
use Open AI for research and going back
and forth on ideas. I use Gemini, which
is Google's, for imagery and video
creation. And then there's one more tool
I use, which is an AI that is a browser
extension. and on my phone that reads to
me any body of text. It's unbelievable.
So, if someone writes a blog or someone
writes a tweet storm or whatever, it
allows me to walk around Chicago, go for
walks, be outside, and I can consume
research like someone's reading me a
book, but it could be anything on the
internet. So, I literally just have
wired headphones in my ears. I walk
around Chicago, get fresh air, sit in
the park, places that kind of inspire
me, and I just listen to research and
listen to ideas, and then when I want to
build something, I just talk to my
computer. I will just pull out my phone
and say, "Hey, tell my computer to build
these slides." So, anyways, let's check
back in on my So, it created it. So, I'm
going to refresh my deck. And here's the
slide it just made. Live example of AI.
This is mind-blowing. Deflation meets
inflation. It just made that slide
because I just talked to it. So, the
presentation you guys are seeing is I
just talk to my computer. I say, "Here's
all the data. Here are the references.
Here are the images and the screenshots
that I created. I have a folder on my
computer and like here's here's all the
stuff. Make it." And I go walk to the
grocery store, listen to more research.
I come back and I go back and forth with
it a little bit. It's insane. It's
[__] insane.
So, we go on
from Axios. AI insiders are sounding the
alarm. A lot of insiders and executives
at these AI companies have started to
quit because of how powerful this stuff
is getting and where they think the
world is going. On the right, it reads,
"The assertion that disruptive AI does
not require artificial general
intelligence, so AGI, but rather good
enough technology deployed at scale
highlights a critical, often overlooked
reality. Industrial disruption is driven
by cost, speed, and ubiquity, not just
peak human level capability. So the
point is people are starting to realize
we don't need AGI to disrupt the world.
All we need is the tools that are exist
today at scale."
Like I'm telling you, I'm developing
software with my mouth. I'm not I don't
ever touch my keyboard.
And and and here's the thing. Let me
say, and I've said this before in prior
episodes, but I feel it's important to
reiterate. I don't find this dystopian.
You know, you you really are if it's
it's you are what you want to be. If you
want to be a victim, be a victim. You
have every excuse to be a victim. You
could say, "Oh, the phones in our pocket
and the social media networks and the
AI. It's so dystopian and I miss the
world where everyone had more human
interaction, blah blah blah blah blah."
Sure, you want to be a victim. You could
be a victim. No one's stopping you. Do
you have plenty of excuses to be a
victim and pout like a little baby? You
could also be empowered. What is a AI?
AI is bringing down the marginal cost of
intelligence, the marginal cost of
software, the marginal cost of being an
accountant, medical, lawyer. So legal,
medical, finance, intelligence, and
software, the core five things that you
need to achieve anything in your life
are worth effectively zero or as close
to zero as they'll ever be. And what's
left? What's left is the creative
expression of being human. So, I've said
many a times and I'll do a presentation
at some point, maybe the next conference
I go to in long forum. I expect Bitcoin
and AI to usher in a new art renaissance
because if you have the money that you
can actually save that can't be debased
because the problem today is, you know,
a doctor is only spending 50% of his or
her time focusing on being a doctor and
they're spend spending the other 50% of
their time being a speculator because
they have to be. If you're being
compensated in a currency that's being
debased and you're living through highly
inflationary times because of fiat, then
you have to download Robin Hood, punt on
stocks, understand central bank monetary
policy, try and listen to this show and
understand what the [__] is going on
instead of just division of labor and
focusing on your craft. And so, for one,
Bitcoin will allow us to be more future
oriented, lower our time preference, not
spend our time panicking and speculating
like a bunch of gamblers, and become
savers. And then AI will remove our uh
need to do white collar mundane labor.
You don't have to do all the accounting
work. You don't have to do all the
manual nursing work. You don't have to
write all the legal documents. You don't
have to write all the software. You get
to be the creator, the artist.
I think AI empowers the artist. And I've
said this before. I consider my job
largely an art. I mean, what do I do for
a living? Whether it's podcasts, whether
it's tweets, whether it's products,
whether it's companies, whether it's TV
segments, I'm trying to convey
information. I'm trying to relate to
people. I'm trying to inspire people.
I'm trying to uh revolutionize
a group of people towards a better
world, right? It's an it's an art. How
to connect with you guys, how to relay
information, how to inspire, how to
galvanize,
um how to encourage. It's an art and
AI's made me a better artist. I mean, I
I can do I keynotes used to take me
months to prepare and they were painful.
It was like putting an artist in the
studio and forcing them to record an
album. It was painful. Like how do I
inspire myself and you go back and forth
and one good idea took me like days in
slide format to puke out and then I
realized I hated it and I have to scrap
it and start over. And now it's made me
such a better artist.
It's easier to express myself. It's
easier to explore. And the marginal cost
for me to get more intelligence, get
more engineering is like nothing. I'm
paying a thousand bucks a month for all
my AI accounts and I don't touch my
keyboard anymore. It's [__] crazy.
And I run two massive companies.
It's crazy.
Anyway, so um this from the Microsoft AI
CEO, he said, I mean, this is crazy.
Most, if not all, professional tasks for
lawyers, accountants, project managers,
and marketing professionals will be
fully automated by AI within the next 12
to 18 months. And here's the thing, if
that's true,
then
there is a crisis brewing. The level of
unemployment is insane. And here's the
thing, guys. You say, "Well, why is that
such a big deal? What if everyone went
to the park and ate butterfingers all
day? Why is that a problem?" Well, the
problem is all of these people have
credit cards, have mortgages, have car
notes, have student debt. We live in a
fiat world. We live in a debt-based
monetary system. How are they going to
pay that back? And if no one has a job
and all of the jobs are done by a robot,
well then who's paying taxes to the
government to service its $40 trillion
of debt?
So if the government has no more tax
receipts to service its debt, the point
is there's just loads and loads and
loads of debt. And the loads and loads
and loads of debt are presumably being
paid back by siphoning off our time and
energy. We get up, we go to work, the
government takes that from us to service
its debt. And if everyone's like, "Oh,
well, my AI does everything I need and
it's bringing the cost of everything
down. I actually don't need that much
money to service a lifestyle." Well,
then we're going in an extreme sovereign
debt crisis because everyone's
unemployed.
So, again, crisis and there's I'll get I
won't front myself. Let me just get
through these slides. So, um, head
research of at Anthropic also resigned.
And you guys should go to this tweet. I
won't read this one, but it's it's
crazy. He's like, I I will read one
part. Um,
I'll read the third paragraph.
Nevertheless, it is clear to me that the
time has come to move on. I continuously
find myself reckoning with our
situation. The world is in peril and not
just from AI or bioweapons but from a
whole series of interconnected crisis
unfolding in this very moment. We appear
to be approaching a threshold where our
wisdom must grow in equal measure to our
capacity to affect the world lest we
face the consequences. Moreover,
throughout my time here, I've repeatedly
seen how hard it is to truly let our
values uh
let our values govern our actions. I've
seen this within myself within the
organization where we constantly face
pressure to set aside what matters most
and throughout broader society too.
So, these AI leaders are having like
existential crisis. So, this guy writes
this note which basically says he's
going to go move to the UK and write
poems and pursue creative artistry and
disappear.
[laughter]
Um,
anyways, back to what you guys care
about. Debt system needs jobs. So, this
visual is just it's just a fact. This is
true interest expense as a percentage of
US tax receipts. So it's you know tax
receipts meaning they're collecting
taxes from the people via capital gains.
So assets go up people you sell those
assets to do stuff in the economy and
they take capital gain tax receipt or
the tax receipts from income. So the
core tax receipts drive inability to
cover the true interest expense and you
can see US true interest expense as a
percentage US tax receipts rise half of
our so I have on the bottom left there
50% half of our receipts are tied to
employment
so AI pressures the base of this pyramid
it's starting to become very fragile if
in 12 to 18 months all white collar is
eviscerated entirely disrupted Then the
pyramid that the United States has built
is falling apart completely and stress
shows up in consumers. Um I write elite
overprouction is causing societal
stress. So delinquencies are rising and
if AI is disrupting then delinquencies
are an early tell that this is already
happening. I've talked about elite
overproduction from the book the end
times. But I will just read this
screenshot from Wikipedia to remind you
guys. Elite overproduction is a concept
developed by Peter Turchin that
describes the condition of a of a
society that has an excess supply of
potential elite members relative to its
ability to absorb them into the power
structure. This he hypothesiz
hypothesizes is a cause for sto social
instability. So the whole thesis is that
a collapsing empire. Okay,
it there are two core KPIs that show
it's about to collapse or is collapsing.
One is real wage growth. So when wage
growth starts to decline in real terms
so that people's salaries are getting
them less groceries, affording them less
family, less housing, less energy, less
vacations, less everything. that that
causes societal distress is people are
working harder and getting less. Okay.
And the other is this concept of elite
overproduction which is extremely
fascinating because what he describes as
elite are university educated people
that want to be Wall Street hedge fund
managers, want to be tech CEOs, want to
be rising star politicians. And the
problem is not everyone can be that.
Now, it sounds crazy me saying that as a
31-year-old in the United States because
everyone my age thinks that's what life
is all about. Why? Because there is no
bluecollar work. There is no manual
labor labor work. If you don't have a
university degree, you're poor and you
have no future life according to, you
know, anyone in in the dense populace of
the United States. If they like that's
just been our reality.
all of the manual labor jobs. Like if
you know, uh, mining rare earths in the
United States paid you as much as as a
Google engineer, then I'm sure that
people would say, "Ah, screw it. I'm
good on going to university. I'll I'll
just get my hands dirty, mine some rare
earth, and make a living." But that's
just not there. There is no such thing.
And so what you have is everyone is
forced into university degrees. And you
have this concept of elite overp
production where everyone is aspiring
for positions in society. There aren't
enough of them. So what you get is these
are typically who are the
revolutionaries.
These youthful, well-educated, well
articulate, well-coordinated group of
people end up saying, "Fuck this system.
What a sick joke. Convince me to get up
to my eyeballs in debt. I've got a
mortgage. I've got student debt. I've
got a car note. I've got credit card
debt. All for me to get fired because
Elon's robots took my job.
[__] this socialism.
That that is elite overproduction. And
elite overproduction is a result of all
this fiat garbage. No bluecollar jobs.
And then, you know, a deflationary
technology should be good for all of us.
A deflationary technology should bring
the price down of everything that we
want to consume. And it has for me. My
life is amazing because of AI. I'm a far
better artist, a far better podcaster, a
far better CEO, a far better everything.
But I mean, I mean, these are the and
mind you, I don't want to get too dark,
but who I just described, these like
university educated but disenfranchised,
you know, people, these are also the
people that have been picking up guns
and shooting people, right?
I mean
anyway we move on. So this is how AI
leads to money printing what I've been
talking about. So AI it's disruption
that leads to employment numbers coming
down which we now have officially seen
the revised numbers for 2025 over 1
million. That's outrageous which brings
the government's tax receipts down which
brings our debt stress up as a country
which brings market stress up. markets
crash and that's when they print the
money. So I would say we are somewhere
along this line. We are not at the money
printing yet, but we are probably like 3
to 6 months from the money printing. I
would say I would say we're one to two
quarters from the money printing if I
had to guess. I mean listen I no one
knows the future. I'm wrong all the
time. So you know don't get it tattooed
on your forehead. But this is how this
is the dominoes. So, we went through the
dominoes of how Japan causes a market
crash and this is how AI causes a market
crash. And when you have them both at
the same time, you start getting Bitcoin
flying to the downside and sending a
warning shot, a liquidity smoke alarm
across everyone's computer screen. You
see the Mag 7 getting absolutely
hammered. It explains why gold is
catching a bid and sovereign paper is
getting rotated out of. I mean, I I
think a crisis is brewing. And so to end
it, Bitcoin's the liquidity thermometer.
Deflation first, print later. So where
are we with Bitcoin? We're at the turn
on your DCAs, guys. You know, I expect
Bitcoin to Can it make another low? Can
it come lower than what what's our low
recently? 60K. I don't even know.
Something like that. Can it go lower?
Yeah, 100%. Will it? I have no idea.
What I look at, I look at a, you know, a
certain set of charts and data to give
me a sense of, you know, what you want.
Lows are rarely made like in a flash
instance. And I'm not talking about like
the literal low. I'm talking about the
general chapter of the bare market. Um
it for me it's turn on your DCAs. It you
know I never have the expectation that
I'm going to pick off the pico bottom.
Right. Of course for me it's how can I
you know what can I sell in my life?
Like I'm actively looking around like
what can I sell? How can I get some
liquidity for myself and turn turn on
the DCAs? Turn turn all my my paychecks
come into strike. They get converted
into Bitcoin. Turn on my DCAs. And so
Bitcoin MVRV at 0.5. Traditionally, the
all the absolute bottoms are when that
reaches below zero. So we're getting
really, really close. Only 5.3% of days
have seen the Bitcoin Mayor multiple at
a lower level. So yes, Bitcoin price can
go lower, but again, at what point do
you turn on your DCA and start stacking
SATs? I mean, I think now is that time.
And this one was really interesting.
This is the business cycle and the
liquidity cycles paired with Bitcoin.
And it its point is liquidity right now
is not abundant. Liquidity is stressed.
the business cycle we really main street
has been in a recession since liberation
week basically um or or even before that
is the point and that it's starting to
turn up again and the economy is
starting to get hot GD uh GDP numbers um
economic numbers are actually looking
really good and so uh it's saying that
you know Bitcoin is probably bottom
bottoming out if you look at its history
and its relationship to the business
cycle so you know Where are we at with
Bitcoin? I think you've got, I don't
know, weeks to months to turn on a DCA
and get Bitcoin at extremely relatively
cheap prices before big printing comes
because of uh some crisis. Because of
some crisis.
Um, okay. I'm excited for for this
section. Hold on. I got a message. It
might be from Dylan. Nope.
I think Dylan's off today. Um, okay. So,
uh, I don't know. So, this is a new
section of the show, so bear with me
here. I think it sounded funny. Um, so
you guys, here's my pitch on the
section, but you'll let me know the
feedback in the chat and in the
comments. You guys, uh, seem to like
when I go on these like rants. Someone
asks a question in the chat and I think
it's stupid and I just go off and I
start cursing and getting all fired up
and you guys seem to think that's
hilarious. And so it reminded me of I
grew up a Family Guy kid. So, you know,
growing up in my house, my dad and I
would always watch Family Guy. And it
reminded me of uh Peter Griffin had this
segment in Family Guy called Grind My
Gears. Um I'll just play the first bit
of this clip here. Uh shout out to all
the Family Guy fans out there. I I was a
huge Family Guy kid.
>> Yeah, save your money, Tucker. This
place doesn't have porn. They think it's
immoral. You know, that really grinds my
gears. Where exactly in the Bible does
it say a man can't fire off some knuckle
children in the privacy of his own
neighbor's living room while his
neighbor's at work because I don't have
a DVD player? Well, I don't know where
it says it because the Bible is way too
long to read. Hey, that was quite a rant
there. You know, we're looking for an
everyman to rant about petty nonsensical
irritants to replace our spotlight on
the Middle East segment.
>> In other [music] news, after several
grueling days of frightening
uncertainty, I finally get my period.
Well, Diane, I'm sure you and your
brother must be devastated by the loss
of the two-headed offspring that might
have been. We now go to Peter Griffin
for you know what really grinds my
gears.
>> Thanks, Tom. You know what really grinds
my gears? Nobody's come up with a new
priest and a rabbi joke in like 30
years. You know, I mean, okay, uh uh a
priest and a rabbi go into the
supermarket and uh the priest wants to
buy a ham and a rabbi says, "I can't eat
it. I It's forbidden. Couldn't eat it.
Not allowed. Pig pigs are like
superheroes to them." Is it perfect? No.
But I don't see you coming up with
anything. And that people is what grinds
my gears.
>> Okay. So, whatever. It reminds me of
this Family Guy section where Peter ends
up going on the news and having a news
segment called, "You know what really
grinds my gears?" And so, I figured I
would I would have my own version of
that. So, welcome to the first ever oop
first ever what really grinds my gears
where I pick a few things over the last
week that really grinds my gears and
just rant about it and you guys give me
feedback. Let me know if you think that
this is funny. But, um, some things
really piss me off and uh, I'm always
ranting to Dylan about it. And when I
was reading the comment section, I was
like, honestly, I might as well make a
segment out of this. Okay, you know what
really grinds my gears? The people that
tell you how to use Bitcoin and they
Sorry, this is not a kid-friendly
version of the show. Kids, time to leave
and go to bed. Parents, time to turn the
show off if you got your kids listening
cuz you know when I start to get going,
the curse words fly. I'm sorry. Sorry,
not sorry. Okay. Do you know what grinds
my gears is the people that [__] and
moan and complain that you're not using
Bitcoin how they want you to use
Bitcoin. So this I got tagged in a
million times. It the text is really
small. Let's see if I can zoom in here.
This we are not winning but we can. If
we want to win, we have to fight and
ridicule custodial exchanges, stable
coins, ETFs, treasury companies, and
Bitcoinbacked loans. All of these things
are the opposite of the vision that the
cipher punks, our founding fathers made.
The United States of America is where it
is today because Americans forgot the
vision of its founders and the
Constitution. And it goes on to just
[__] and moan and complain.
I don't like the way you're using
Bitcoin. you shouldn't be using loans.
You shouldn't be using It's like, oh my
god, shut the [__] up. It's so insane to
me that these self-declared libertarians
and self-s sovereign people that believe
fundamentally in property rights get so
wound up to tell other people how to use
their property. Here's the thing, guys.
Bitcoin uniquely enables anyone to do
what they want, including I can't send
gold to the other side of the world
without depositing it to a central uh
party without trusting a central party.
That's why gold failed. Gold failed
because it can't scale to an internet
economy because I got to deposit it to a
bank, to a government, to a central bank
in order for me to send it on the
internet. Bitcoin allows you to hold
itself custodially to move it without
the permission of anyone else. But if
you want to deposit it on an exchange,
get a loan. Of course, you're allowed to
do whatever the [__] you want. It's the
equivalent of I don't like the way that
you're using your house. Well, guess
what? It's my [__] house. I don't
give a [__] what you think about how I
use my house. It's my house. It's my
property. Shut the [__] up. Do us all a
favor and stop whining and complaining.
Here's the other thing. If creating an
ETF or someone creating a custodial
exchange or someone offering a Bitcoin
backed loan was the death of Bitcoin,
then Bitcoin was never destined to
succeed in the first place. If enough
people do not want to protect the core
principles of Bitcoin and what makes it
valuable, then Bitcoin is going to fail.
And I'm not saying people shouldn't
advocate for what they believe in.
There's a huge difference between, hey,
I believe self-custody is important. I
believe in holding your own keys, which
I think that's first of all, I'm quoting
myself. We say this at strike all. I
don't want to to any Bitcoin on our
platform, but to just [__] and moan and
complain every time I open my social
media mentions and it's like, "Hey,
Jack, take a look at this. Read this. Oh
yeah, thanks bright guy. I started and
run two of the biggest Bitcoin companies
in the world, but it wasn't until you
dropped a mention in my Noster mentions
for me to read. Oh, thank you. Get a
[__] grip. Serious. It It grinds my
gears to no end. On what planet do you
have the right to tell people how to use
their property? Bitcoin is money for
everyone. It drives me nuts all day.
People tweet at me, "I don't like the
way you're using Bitcoin. I don't like
the way I don't like that Black Rockck
has an ETF." I really Oh, it really
bothers me. Shut the [__] up. Shut the
[__] Shut up. Use Bitcoin however you
want to use Bitcoin. As long as you're
following the consensus rules and we're
advocating and maintaining the core
principles of the asset, if someone
wants to take a loan against Bitcoin,
people say, "Jack, why don't you spend
your Bitcoin?" Because where I live,
they don't accept Bitcoin.
Shut the [__] up. Oh, it drives me nuts.
It d It's so It's so antithesis of the
whole point of Bitcoin. The whole point
of Bitcoin is property rights for
everyone. I do what I want with my
property. I would never say tell
someone, "I don't like the way that you
use your kitchen. I don't like the way
that you use your house. It's not my
house. Why would I give a [__] how
someone else uses their property?"
Oh, it drives me nuts. It does. Guess
what? Bitcoinbacked loans have changed
my life.
They've allowed me to acquire more
Bitcoin than I otherwise would have
acquired, and I've sold less Bitcoin
than I otherwise have had to sell.
Things like the line of credit that
we're about to roll out have changed my
life.
If you don't want to use it, then just
don't use it. You just complain and
[__] and moan. And then these people
create enemies out of people like me.
Dude, get Hey, jackass. I've never held
a gun to your head and said, "You need
to use a loan or you need to use a
custodial exchange." Do whatever you
want. Do us all a favor and shut the
[__] up.
Oh my god, it's so It's ridic Oh my god,
these [laughter]
these custodial exchanges, Jack and
Strike and their Bitcoin loans, they're
ruining Bitcoin and I just can't stand
it. I just I'm making me want to cry. I
need a hug.
Shut the [__] up. [sighs]
Oh my god.
Okay, [laughter]
next episode of you know what really
grinds my gears? People that complain
about our Bitcoin backed lending product
that don't understand it. Okay, so this
dude post, so I put out an FYI that we
had changed some of our terms on our
loan product to benefit the Bitcoiner.
Okay. So, we give you three days now to
post collateral once you're in a margin
call. And what people people didn't even
know, we don't fully liquidate Bitcoin.
If we need to liquidate some of your
Bitcoin, we only liquidate enough to get
you to a healthy state. So, we will
never sell your entire Bitcoin
collateral. We'll sell a tiny little
portion to get you back healthy. And so
the combination of giving you more time
and only selling a little bit to get you
back healthy allows the price to rebound
and gives you time to either get more
collateral or for the price to get you
back up. So it was a really good good
change. And I post this FYI and this guy
says, "Got to say the worst narrative in
this bare market has been that Strike
and others are intentionally trying to
steal users Bitcoin with this dump. If
that was true, they wouldn't operate
this way." And I wrote genuine question.
Do people actually believe this? To
state the obvious. My business incentive
is to keep the loan open for as long as
possible. I get paid servicing my
customer. Quote, taking their Bitcoin
and quote onto my balance sheet would be
about the dumbest way imaginable for me
to acquire Bitcoin. If I want to buy
Bitcoin at these levels, which I do
every day, regardless of the price, I
buy Bitcoin with our profit. We don't
lend out cash from our balance sheet
because we don't want to own billions of
dollars of fiat. Strike owns as much
Bitcoin as possible. We lend out fiat
that we got from somebody else. So when
a loan gets liquidated, it's because I
owe the cash back to someone who gave me
the cash. If the customer defaults, I
have to sell the Bitcoin to get back the
cash to the person that lent me the
cash. So what do I want? What's my
business incentive? I want Bitcoiners to
have healthy loans and never sell
forever. I buy Bitcoin with the money I
earn providing the service. Duh. You
know what really grinds my gears? People
that critique and yell about something
they don't understand. They say, "Wait,
wait a second. You owe someone else
fiat. Yes, you [__] idiot. Here's how
it works." [laughter]
I can't tell if this segment's going to
be like really really loved or really
really hated. Whatever. Listen up,
[__] Here's how it works. If someone
wants a $100 loan, I borrow $100 from
somebody else. I'm not lending out my
own fiat because I don't want billions
of dollars of fiat. I'm the connector. I
found I find people who want to lend out
fiat and I find Bitcoiners who want to
borrow fiat and I connect them and I
have the licenses and the platform and
the risk management and all of that to
provide the service. That's what I do.
So, I borrow $100 from someone else and
I lend you that $100 and I make money
by, let's say, they charge me x% and I
charge x% plus one. So, I'm making 1%
for brokering and providing the service.
So, I have a collection of Bitcoiners
that want to borrow against Bitcoin and
I have a collection of fiat people that
want to lend out fiat and get a return.
So, if someone defaults on their loan, I
have to sell the Bitcoin because I owe
them the $100. If, okay, I borrow $100
from somebody and I lend it to a
Bitcoiner. If the Bitcoiner never pays
me back and they default, then I have to
sell the Bitcoin cuz I owe that guy
$100. To think that I'm stealing your
Bitcoin, you are a [__] idiot. You do
not understand how this works. It's
insane. And listen, I'm not being woe is
me. It's It's man in the arena. It comes
with the territory. Honestly, when
Bitcoin gets in bare markets, people
hate me. You don't like the way I look.
You don't like my hair. Got a haircut,
though. You guys tell ladies, keep it
together. Whatever. You don't like the
closet. You know, people get upset when
the Bitcoin price is down. It's easier
to blame the 31-year-old in the empty
closet that you feel like you know than
it is to blame yourself. And it's it
comes with the territory. It's fine. I'm
not complaining about that. But it
really grinds my gears when people
accuse me of being a criminal or
stealing people's Bitcoin when they
don't even know how the service works.
In fact, the way the service works,
we're one of the only services in the
world that doesn't liquidate all the
Bitcoin. We liquidate a tiny fraction to
keep you healthy and we actually give
you more and more and more time. We're
working with you to allow the price to
rebound rebound. But I don't have I I
can't I have to pay back the person that
I borrowed from in the first place. So,
you know what really grinds my gears is
these people don't understand. People
will tweet at me and say, "Dude, why are
you liquidating at all?" Hey, dumbass.
Because I have to
grinds my gears to no end.
Oh man. Oh [__] Let's see if uh let's
see if my AI can fix this slide. It's
too zoomed in. Or no, I zoomed it in.
There we go. Okay, last episode of You
know what really grinds my gears today.
You know what really grinds my gears?
Pam Bondi. This dumbass who when asked
about Jeffrey Epstein, she said, "Well,
the Dow's over 50K right now. The
NASDAQ's at all-time highs. We should be
talking about that." Shut the [__] up.
That is such that is the most insane
political statement I've ever heard.
Hey, what about
the most heinous
black ring uh sex trafficking
crime? Like what about the wor the worst
version of humanity is Epstein and
everyone implicated in it? It's the
worst thing I've ever seen. Every single
day that more of this [__] comes out, I
lo any amount of trust I had in any
government, any central institution, any
big corporation is evaporated. Is the
most heinous version of mankind ever.
And when asked about that, you talk
about the [__] Dow.
Shut the [__] up. And I tweet I I quote
tweeted and I said the stock market is
only smashing record if you measure it
in dollars. Mind you, the thing that she
wants us to focus on is down against
Bitcoin, down against gold. It's down
against all the things that the
government can't print. It's only
smashing records in the things that the
government can print because the
government is printing those things. You
idiot.
It was pu. Watching this made me vomit.
What an idiot. It's so pathetic. This is
such forth turning. It's outrageous. If
you want to revolutionize the youth, let
me tell you how you revolutionize the
youth. Okay? People that are our age or
younger or as we're attempting to have
kids, we're watching stories of people
that are raping, sexually abusing,
murdering young children, sex
trafficking young children.
And these are the people that run the
products we use, run the government in
the nation state that we live in, hiding
secrets, blackmailing each other. Mind
you, all these kids my age are taking
out debt up to their eyeballs and
there's no jobs for them because of AI.
So their currency is getting debased.
They're unemployed and they're living in
a world where they're supposed to listen
to rapist, crime smuggling, murderers,
liars.
So, Pam Bondi, shut the [__] up.
[sighs]
God.
All right. And those are the three
topics that really grind my gears this
week. [laughter]
We'll see if you guys really loved that
segment or really hated it. But if you
liked it, I'll I'll take a few topics
over the week that just really grind my
gears and I'll just let loose. And and
by the way, you know, I'm I'm just
busting balls on the internet, okay? If
you're one of the people that was
shouting at me and didn't understand how
lending works, it's all love. Don't be a
crybaby, you know? Don't throw stones at
a glass house. I take I take my beatings
to the chin and we all move on. It's
okay. Um but uh it's all it's all good
fun. I'm just busting balls. That's what
really grinds my gears.
Okay. I told myself I'd keep the company
updates fairly brief uh for Strike.
Um New York. I'm still waiting on New
York. So I'm sorry guys. It's not up to
me at this point. I reached out to New
York. They said we're working on it. Um
everything is signed. Uh, I'm not going
to get into the process of the bit
license, but it's like one final thumbs
up is what we're waiting on. And they
said, uh, they're coming with it soon.
And then, uh, the next big thing is line
of credit. We've got all sorts of stuff
rolling out. So, for those that aren't
paying attention, we're almost in all
the United States at this point. We got
Texas last week, which was really,
really exciting. We're turning on
businesses for California soon. So,
looking forward to that. And then the
next two big product launches we have,
we have our line of credit product
rolling out this month. So over the
coming weeks, really exciting. You know,
one of the things for people that want
to live on Bitcoin with Bitcoin backed
loans or just credit on top of Bitcoin,
you know, you you might not want to take
out a 12-month loan because then you got
to take out a big chunk of cash and then
you start getting worried about margin
calls and liquidations and what if the
price goes this way. Instead, if you can
just, you know, a bill comes into strike
that you want to pay and it just extends
a little line of credit so you're
paying, you know, a couple thousand
dollars worth of bills at a time. Your
LTV is super healthy. You're not having
to take out a massive size loan all at
once. It's a far better user experience
for people that don't need all that cash
at once. They're not financing a down
payment. They're not financing a
wedding. They're not financing an
emergency. They're just trying to live
their life on their bitcoins. And so,
you know, that's how I live is I've got
my direct deposit goes into Strike. I've
got my bill pay hooked up to Strike. And
I've got whatever some percentage of my
Bitcoin stash that's not in cold storage
sits on Strike. And it collateralizes
all the payments I need to make. So if I
want to go buy Bitcoin, I have a payment
option of I could buy it with a line of
credit. So I have my bank account or my
line of credit. I want to pay a bill, I
can use my bank account, my Bitcoin
balance or my line of credit. And so in
that way, my LTV is super healthy
because I'm only spending like a month's
worth of bills against collateralize
against my Bitcoin. And then when my
paychecks come in, I can decide, hey, do
I want to pay some of this line of
credit down or do I want to keep growing
it? But then I'm not taking out like one
giant massive 12-month loan at a time.
It's like a rolling line of credit. It
enables people to live on Bitcoin credit
um in a totally different user
experience which I'm very excited about.
And then after that will be our yield on
cash product. So I'm very excited to if
you have cash and you want a return on
that cash, how I talked about the way
our lending product works is I connect
people that want a return on their fiat
with people that want to borrow against
their Bitcoin. That's ultimately the
business we're in. And if you want to
put your fiat in that pool, so I can
basically say, "Hey, you're going to get
six, seven%, 8%, whatever we decide uh
on your fiat dollars and then whenever
you want to withdraw it, you withdraw
it. But we're basically able to afford
you much more than, you know, a cash
sweep program getting the interest rates
that the Fed sets because, you know,
Bitcoin uh backed borrowers are paying
these higher rates because they're, you
know, Bitcoin the asset is performant
and these are producers." So those are
the two products coming from Strike and
then from 21 um same update as always.
We're working on the operating company
working towards uh an announcement which
uh I'm very excited about. So with that
I'll do some Q&A. I got no Dylan so I
don't have a list of questions you guys
have asked throughout the show. Um I
will pull up let's see let me uh let me
pull up my face here. A haircut ladies
keep it together now. I'm just kidding.
Uh, and let's see if I can get the chat
also pulled up. I wonder, let's see
if I can display the chat next to my
face. We can do a little bit of live Q&A
and call it an episode. Let's see here.
I'm just
Okay,
here we go.
screen capture. Sorry, bear with me for
a sec. Apologize.
Not a professional.
Kids, don't try this at home.
There we go.
Okay,
now we've got Oopsy daisies.
Now we've got my face.
Oops.
There we go. My face next to the chat.
Let's see how mean are you guys being
today. What questions I can answer.
Uh, all right. Let's go, chat.
Bring it on.
Um,
Jack, how does AI taking our jobs make
the number go up?
I hope AI doesn't take your job. Um, it
makes the number go up because they're
going to have to print a lot of money as
a result. So, when AI takes jobs and
employment goes down, that means the
receipts that the government is
collecting from all of us goes down. Um,
that also means we also don't have money
to invest in the stock market. So let's
say income uh employment receipts come
down, capital gains receipts come down,
that makes it harder for the US to
service its debt and you get into this
debt spiral um which will result in
money printing or an utter and complete
crisis uh austerity um and insolveny. So
that's why um all roads lead to them
having to print a lot of money is the
reality of the situation. That's That's
how
uh
Let's see.
XXI update.
Um yeah, I I see you. You just spamming
XXI in the chat. XXI XXI. Uh what do you
want me What do you want me to say about
XXI? I told you guys uh my update.
Um we're working on a bunch of exciting
stuff. Nothing that I'm uh willing to
announce today.
Sorry.
Um strike in Italy. Will it be in 2026?
Yes, we do expect Italy in 2026.
Uh Jack, I'd really love to acquire more
Bitcoin through your loan program, but
10.5 APR is too much. Any update on
lowering your guys APR rate, or is that
rate going to stay? Well, so here's the
thing. The problem is I'm limited to the
people willing to lend Bitcoin or lend
dollars against Bitcoin, right? So I
again I I connect with a bunch of people
who are lending and then people who are
borrowing and finding capital at low
rates to lend against Bitcoin. Listen, I
would give you guys 3% if I could, but I
can't because I'm not getting the
dollars that cheap.
So, I think that the market for
borrowing against Bitcoin will always be
a little bit higher than a mortgage
rate, for example, because it's private
capital. It's not government subsidized
Ponzi scheme money. Um, but I think that
Bitcoiners can afford it because Bitcoin
historically has a kagger way higher
than the interest rate. And Bitcoiners
are net producers by definition, right?
They produce more than they consume
which means they have excess capital to
save which they buy and save in Bitcoin.
So you're talking about a cohort of
people who are net producers and then
you're talking about an asset that's
exceeding the interest rate. So to
compare the kagger of real estate is 2
to 4%. A mortgage at you know six plus
percent the assets not outperforming the
interest rate. You know Bitcoin over
whatever duration you want to pick um
its kagger is higher than 10%. So 10 and
a half is not bad, especially when you
consider that the capital gains in the
United States at cheapest is 20%. So
you've got long-term cap gains 20%,
short-term cap gains 30%. So what would
you rather do? Pay 20 to 30% in taxes
and lose your Bitcoin upside or borrow
against it for 10%.
That's why I think it's a no-brainer.
That's why the product has grown so much
only for those that want to do it. You
know what grinds my gears is people that
want to tell everyone else how to live
their life. You don't have to use the
product if you don't want to. And if you
do use the product, you should do so
responsibly.
Um, one personal loans in the UK, we're
working on it. Um, it just it's a matter
of licensing and regulatory. It's tough.
Um, obviously I wish I can offer all of
my products everywhere all at once. Um,
will the line of credit be available for
companies? Yes, 100% will absolutely be
available for companies. Really excited
about that. The line of credit to me is
like the most innovative, revolutionary
Bitcoin credit product ever because all
anyone offers is like these 12-month
loans because the capital that we're
borrowing from has this 12-month
duration to it. Or else I would I would
love to give you guys a fiveyear Bitcoin
loan. Just there's no such thing. So,
um, anyways, the line of credit's huge
because instead of having to borrow a
lump sum of cash for a year, you can
just draw as you spend, uh, against your
Bitcoin, which is amazing. Um, really
excited about that.
Uh, let's see.
Shout out Queen always in the chat,
always supporting me. Jack, I just
signed up. Oh [__] Jack, I just signed
up uh my new business account for Strike
Business and I don't want to have to use
a regular fiat bank account. Do you have
recommendations for how I can, for
example, buy something at Amazon? Yeah.
So, what I do for both our business and
myself personally is I just use credit
cards because a credit card is like a
free fiat loan. So, I get to spend fiat
without actually having to own fiat. So,
I go on Amazon, I buy whatever I need on
Amazon, and then when I go to pay my
credit card bill, I pay that with
Strike. And then you can use the line of
credit. So, let's say, let's say this.
Let's say I have half a million dollars
of Bitcoin on Strike and I spend five
grand, 10 grand a month on, you know, my
rent, my credit card bill, my
electricity bill, you know, whatever, my
car note, and that's all hooked up to
Strike. Well, it's pretty
straightforward, right? like I'm going
to be like when a bill comes in, Strike
creates a little credit against the
Bitcoin I have on the platform and pays
the bill for me and then sends me a
notification. Hey, your line of credit
grew from $0 to $2,000, from $2,000 to
$4,000. And then when my paychecks come
in, I can decide, do I want any of these
this paycheck to pay down that line of
credit or do I want the line of credit
to keep going? But then I don't have to
borrow like $250,000 at once for one
year's worth of spending and then
Bitcoin bounces around and gets
volatile. And so you're just using it as
like a dynamic payment method. And so I
spend everyday spending I do on credit
cards um as my way to kind of interface
with the existing fiat world. So it's
worked like a charm. It's incredible.
And so for that reason I've actually
been able to buy more Bitcoin because my
paychecks, you know, anything that I
don't pay down, I just convert into
Bitcoin. So my paychecks are like
constantly DCAing and then it's helped
me not sell Bitcoin. So instead of yes,
the whatever 10% APR is high compared to
a mortgage, but it's not high compared
to capital gains or Bitcoin's typical
return. So especially right now, I
definitely don't want to be selling
Bitcoin now.
Uh, on the biz line of credit, do you
pay interest on your balance if you
clear it monthly or is the interest only
applied to the carryover balance? Uh,
we'll give out details soon. Um, but,
uh, the interest is acred daily and and
once you pay it off, it it erases. So,
it's a really really good product.
Really good product. I'm really excited
to get it out there. I think it's going
to change the way, you know, people are
able to live on Bitcoin.
Um,
what is what does three weeks next week
mean? Uh,
I I think we do have personal lending in
Ireland. This guy asked, "Are there
personal loans in Ireland?" Uh, we
should have personal loans in Ireland.
So, check it out.
Um,
okay.
I think I think I'm done. We've been
going for an hour and a half.
Uh, I have a stuffy nose. Okay. Oh,
damn. A bunch more just came in.
Still hitting the links, Jack. I do not
play as much golf as I probably would if
I wasn't so busy, but that's okay. No
worries.
No worries.
I don't know who Robert Duvall is. Am I
supposed to know who that is?
Um,
cool.
I mean, a lot of these are just people
keep spamming.
Let's see.
Let's hear about XXI. What a joke. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. I've heard it all. Keep that
same energy.
Tether and I
are excited about the future. That's all
I'll say. Keep that energy. But keep it
coming. Keep it coming. But you know, my
haters
really drive me.
You know how many people said when we
launched our Bitcoin lending product
that I was a criminal, scammer, was
going to blow up, blah blah blah blah
blah. Just keep all the hate coming. It
drives me. I really love it. I have a uh
I have a folder on my computer of
screenshots of all the people and these
sometimes these are people that like
will come up to me at conferences and be
like, "Hey man, like how's it going? I
could really use a favor." I'm like,
"Aren't you the guy on Twitter that just
called me a criminal?"
So, I keep a folder of it all. I really
do. Um, all right.
Uh, with that, I think I should end it,
honestly. Um,
I Yeah, I mean, this Q&A is nothing
without Dylan with the chat coming in in
real time. It's just impossible um to
do. So, um, peace and love you guys. Um,
sorry if some of these topics were a
little redundant. I mean, what's
happening in macro is what's happening
in macro. It's not up to me. So, uh, it
is what it is. It's, uh, Japan plus AI
seems to be forming a bit of a crisis
and Bitcoin is basically giving us a
forewarning of that. So, let me know if
you guys have questions in the YouTube
comments. Uh if there are certain parts
of these topics that you want to dive
deeper on or that you don't totally
understand. Um get let me know what you
thought about the you know what really
grinds my gears uh segment.
You know that was probably part
therapeutic for me to just be like god
damn it stop telling me how to use my
own Bitcoin. I want a loan against my
Bitcoin. [__] sue me. Um and part of
it also was just comedic value and maybe
a little bit of education in there. So,
if you guys liked it, let me know. Um,
I'll I'll do, uh, one to three grind my
gears topics next, and then we'll have
Dylan back next week for some Q&A. So,
as always, uh, leave feedback.
Appreciate you all. Hang in there. Turn
on your DCAs. Lower your time
preference. Hunker down. These are the
moments legends are made. These are the
moments, uh, where returns are built.
Uh, this is where to turn on your DCA.
Not financial advice, but at least
that's that's my opinion. And, uh, I'll
catch you guys, uh, next week. Hang in
there. Uh, stay safe, stay healthy. Take
care.